Hello everyone and welcome to this side lecture on visualizing sorting algorithms.
So in this lecture we're just going to give you some resources and websites that you can use to visualize
the sorting algorithms that we're going to be discussing throughout the rest of this section.
Keep in mind we will give you the resources and specific links for each sorting algorithm.
As the lecture on that algorithm comes up so you'll be reminded on these links and have resources constantly
throughout this section of the course.
But what I want to do here is go ahead and show you the Web sites in particular how to use them and
how to best take advantage of them for your learning.
So let's go ahead and jump to the browser.
OK.
So the first web site I want you to be aware of is it w that sorting algorithms dot com.
This is a great Web site for visualizing sorting algorithms as well as seeing the pseudo code and basic
algorithm definition.
So for instance if you want to learn more about the insertion algorithm you click here on a specific
algorithm name they'll go ahead and tell you about the pseudo code for the algorithm tell you it's properties
give you a brief discussion on the algorithm.
But if you want to actually visualize it we can do this you have four different options on the type
of data you have.
Go to them and it will begin to actually visualize the algorithm.
So this is really useful and a great Web site.
Let's go ahead and check out another one that ex-wifes might want to check out.
It's called visual algo dot net.
That's the I O S u l g o dot net.
Again this is a great Web site.
You can have here the lists of algorithms you want to check out.
If you go down to the left corner over here you can go ahead and say create if you want to create your
own personal list and you click here.
When you're ready to actually implement the sorting algorithm what's really great about this Web site
is if you go over here on the right you'll notice there's two tabs you can go out and open them up and
they will actually show you the pseudo code as you go along.
And I'll tell you what line of the pseudo code you're on.
So this is a really great Web site for learning the algorithms.
Just keep in mind that there's differences in how you can actually implement the algorithm.
So some algorithms will implement the sorting from the left side.
Others from the right side others will check if it's greater then some will check if it's less than
.
So although the basic concept of the algorithm is the same sometimes the way it's implemented is slightly
different than the way we do it in the lectures.
But just keep that in mind.
You can also change the speed of the algorithm here over at the bottom left corner and you can pause
and play through each of the steps.
Lastly Wikipedia if you just do a Wikipedia search on the algorithm it should usually have some sort
of visualization that static as well as a visualization that's animated and all the information performance
etc. about the algorithm is available for you.
On the Wikipedia website.
OK.
So those are the main resources I wanted you to be aware of.
WW does sorting dash algorithms dot com visual algo dot net.
That's the SU a o dot net.
And then Wikipedia pages you'll always have links to these visualization Web sites in the books.
With that being said let's go ahead and get started.
Thanks everyone.